Background. Most studies proposing new strategies to manage and treat infections have been largely focused on identifying druggable targets that can inhibit a pathogen's growth when it is the single cause of infection. In vivo, however, infections can be caused by multiple species. This is important to take into account when attempting to develop or use current antibacterials since their efficacy can change significantly between single and co-infections. 

Method. In this study, we used genome-scale metabolic models (GEMs) to interrogate the growth capabilities of Vibrio cholerae (V. cholerae) in single and co-infections with enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC). 

Results. Co-infection model predictions showed that V. cholerae growth capabilities are enhanced in presence of ETEC relative to V. cholerae single-infection, through cross-fed metabolites made available to V. cholerae by ETEC. In vitro, co-cultures of the two enteric pathogens further confirmed model predictions showing an increased growth of V. cholerae in co-culture relative to V. cholerae single-cultures while ETEC growth was suppressed. Dual RNAseq analysis of the co-cultures also confirmed that the transcriptome of V. cholerae is distinct during co-infection compared to single infection scenarios where processes related to metabolism were significantly perturbed. Further, in silico gene-knock out simulations uncovered discrepancies in gene essentiality for V. cholerae growth between single and co-infections. 

Significance. Integrative model-guided analysis identified druggable targets that would be critical for V. cholerae growth in both single and co-infections, thus designing inhibitors against those targets would provide a broader spectrum coverage against cholera infections.
